Resume Workshop

When Hope opens a resume, she sees the resume first and has to look for the cover letter. Mozilla has an applicant tracking system, as do many large and medium size companies. Recruiters have ~7 seconds to peruse the resume. So the resume needs to immediately say: 

1. Recent job title
2. Recent place of employment or study
3. Whether the non-negotiable skills exist on your resume
4. Where you are
5. Whether I am going to continue to learn more about you

Standards can be different in different countries, so check before you submit a resume internationally. 

Should objectives stil be listen in resumes - Different recruiters will say different things. She likes them when they are well thought out, concise and no more than 2 sentences. 

If you speak/read/understand another language list that with your level on your resume. 

Do more keywords push a resume to the top in Mozilla's ATS - Mozilla's does not parse for keywords, but in the organizations that do, then keywords are really important. 

The ats data comes in an unformatted box of text, so she goes and looks at the actual resume. 

If you can convey creativity, passion and commitment to trying to get the job you are applying to, you will likely get your resume looked at. 

Shorter sentences, not big blocks of text make an resume easier to review. 

Even in non-tech jobs, listing a bulleted list of focused expertise makes it easier for a recruiter to read. 

She doesn't list references on her resume and she no longer even mentions that references are available upon request. 

For online educations courses (e.g. Coursera, Treehouse, etc.) the best way to display it is to create a block being as specific as possible about what you did and what you accomplished. Highlight your education in an area, even if you are missing the workplace professional experience to back it up. 

In the last 5-7 years, especially post economic downturn, it has changed the perspective on college degrees. Now most reruiters are looking for experience more than they care whether you have a bachellors degree or not. Although there are still employers that require a degree. 

#Interview Discussion

To deal with interview anxiety try the following:

1. Keep perspective. Write down what the worst is that can happen. Think about your anxiety and what specific questions you fear. 
2. If your hands sweat, put antipersperant on your hands 2 hours before.
3. If your hands get icy, run warm water over them right before the interview. 
4. If you have a job description, write a correlating document with what you have done so you are prepared. Don't be afraid to bring and use your documents during 		the interview. 
5. Do a mock interview. 
6. Active intention - imagine your success from the moment you walk in until the moment you walk out. 
7. The night before lay out the clothes you are going to wear. 

			For a tech interview:
				For men - button down shirt and slacks or an open necked button down shirt and a blazer
				For women - Sweater and leggings. 
8. Remind yourself that you are interviewing them as much as they are interviewing you. 		


Behavioral Interviewing - You can tell if someone is behaviorally interviewing you when they are looking for specific answers. 
			Tell me about a time when you handled x situation. - You want to give a very specific situation and explain exactly what you did. The night before prepare a success and a failure story. Lots of action words.  With the failure story, explain how you turned it around or what you learned from the experience. If you worked with a team, use I as much as you use we. Never use self-defeating language. List one word attributes that are very descrptive. 

Other interview tips:
	Never show up more than 10 minutes early.
	Do not get so engrossed in taking notes that you fail to maintain eye contact. 
	Bring examples of your work. If you bring code, make sure it is really awesome code. 
Always have a question to ask. 

Do your research on the company and know who their first line competitors are. Also know who the parent company is, if appropriate.

If you aren't interviewing with the people you will be working with, that is a red flag. 


Thank you emails are ok, but if you want to make an extra impression, you can send a short and sweet snail mail thank you.


Recommend going to the company's website and create a list of questions that can't be answered on the website. 

Go to Glassdoor.com.

Never underestimate the receptionist.

Never wear cologne or perfume. 

Go to salary.com and do you research on what your value is and it also shows that you have done your research. 

In a face to face to interview, it is ok to ask about salary and benefits towards the end of the interview. 

Always take a face to face interview when offered. At the very least it is good practice. 

#Body Language

When interviewing you need to be bigger than you are:
		Shoulders back, look comfortable and open. 


